Document SNMP integration architecture (#7370)
DataDog/integrations-core: docs/developer/architecture/snmp.md

# SNMP

!!! note
    This section is meant for developers that want to understand the working of the SNMP integration.

    Be sure you are familiar with [SNMP concepts](../../tutorials/snmp/introduction/), and you have read through the official [SNMP integration docs](https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/snmp).

> ## Overview

Reviewer: Seems we should also mentioned the profiles or ["metrics" configuration](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/fd6df90135de14d06662e49d7696a42c08476a82/snmp/datadog_checks/snmp/data/conf.yaml.example#L344-L354). 

And point to existing docs about how to build profiles.

While most integrations are either Python, JMX, or implemented in the Agent in Go, the SNMP integration is a bit more complex.

Here's an overview of what this integration entails:

* A [Python check](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/master/snmp), responsible for:
    * Collecting metrics from a specific device IP.
    * Auto-discovering devices over a network. (Pending deprecation in favor of Agent auto-discovery.)
* An [Agent service listener](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/master/pkg/autodiscovery/listeners/snmp.go), responsible for auto-discovering devices over a network and forwarding discovered instances to the existing Agent check scheduling pipeline. Also known as "Agent SNMP auto-discovery".

As a diagram:

> ![](/assets/images/snmp-architecture.png)

Author: > AFAIK main intended use case is with DCA.

It's not that clear to me. If the user doesn't have any infra on Kubernetes and/or a single Agent is enough to collect metrics from a few devices, then Agent auto-discovery on a single Agent can still be useful.

> ![](/assets/images/snmp-architecture.png)

Reviewer: > It's not that clear to me. If the user doesn't have any infra on Kubernetes and/or a single Agent is enough to collect metrics from a few devices, then Agent auto-discovery on a single Agent can still be useful.

Yes, true, we still get some benefits using Agent AD with a single server over Python SNMP AD:
We leverage Agent Scheduling of python checks (one check instance per device, instead of one check instance only for Python snmp AD).

> ![](/assets/images/snmp-architecture.png)

Author: > We leverage Agent Scheduling of python checks (one check instance per device, instead of one check instance only for Python snmp AD).

This looks like the standard behaviour for Python-based integrations, which is why I didn't mention it explicitly and instead focused on showing how Python SNMP AD is the odd one out ("Caveats" section).

#### Caveats

The approach described above is not ideal for several reasons:

* The check code is harder to understand since the two distinct paths ("single device" vs "entire network") live in a single check.
* Each network instance manages several long-running threads that span well beyond the lifespan of a single check run.
* Each network check pseudo-schedules other instances, which is normally the responsibility of the Agent.

For this reason, auto-discovery was eventually implemented in the Agent as a proper service listener (see below), and users should be discouraged from using Python auto-discovery. When the deprecation period expires, we will be able to remove auto-discovery logic from the Python check, making it exclusively focused on checking single devices.

## Agent Auto-Discovery

### Dependencies

Agent auto-discovery uses [GoSNMP](https://github.com/soniah/gosnmp) to get the `sysObjectID` of devices in the network.

### Approach

Agent auto-discovery implements the same logic than the Python auto-discovery, but as a service listener in the Agent Go package.

> This approach leverages the existing scheduling logic, and makes it possible to use device auto-discovery in containerized environments.

Reviewer: > and makes it possible to use device auto-discovery in containerized environments.

That's also possible with Python SNMP AD, but doesn't scale as well.

Author: So, probably…?

```suggestion
This approach leverages the existing scheduling logic, and makes it easier to scale device auto-discovery in containerized environments.
```

Reviewer: > This approach leverages the existing Agent scheduling logic, and makes it possible to scale device auto-discovery using DCA and node Agents.

Might need a reference to DCA here: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/cluster_agent/

> This approach leverages the existing scheduling logic, and makes it possible to use device auto-discovery in containerized environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach leverages the existing Agent scheduling logic, and makes it possible to use device auto-discovery in containerized environments.
```
